Now our first use case is communicating with web browsers.
Nowadays,
lots of websites are written as single-page web apps or at least as web apps
with a lot of dynamic content written using JavaScript.
Now this design means you need a way of retrieving data from your server,
where the data is stored, and getting it back onto the web browser.
For example, if you load up Twitter in a web browser,
it needs a way of querying information about the
different tweets in your timeline, and that data is located on Twitter's server.
JSON is a very commonly used serialization format for these kind of
tasks because front-end code is either written in JavaScript or
languages that compile to JavaScript.
And JSON is a format that's easily parsed within a web browser
and maps nicely to the JavaScript object model.
There are a number of different communication patterns they use by that
front-end code in order to retrieve and send JSON-related data.
So they might be using remote procedure calls with HTTP.
The web browser does an Ajax-style HTTP GET or POST to read
data from the server or to send it data.
The data being transported can be encoded using JSON.
Server sent events are another way of servers keeping HTTP requests open
and pushing events out from the server to the client.
The data stored in these events can be encoded using JSON,
and there's also websockets.
Now these enable a bidirectional stream of events
between the web browser and the server.
Again,
the data in these events can be encoded using JSON as an interchange format.
Covering these approaches in depth is kind of outside the scope of this course,
but it's always worth being aware of the bigger picture usage patterns
that motivate our use of technologies such as JSON.
Now a key thing to remember is whatever technology you use for the
underlying transport is often agnostic to the use of JSON,
and JSON isn't a transport technology as such.
It's just there to represent the data.
Our second example problem where JSON is used to exchange
information is between servers on your own system,
or at least within your own datacenter or in the cloud or something like that.
The problem here is you have different services that you
need to exchange information between.
You don't want to have to pick a technology that's specific to one
programming language because that mandates the implementation of the
services to be in the language in question.
It's also convenient to have a human-readable data interchange format.
This is because if you want to inspect, monitor,
or debug traffic going between these two services,
then it's really easy to do so if you can actually read that data yourself.
I definitely don't want to encourage you to always pick JSON as your
data format for exchanging information between servers.
There are a lot of other choices these days and at the end of
the course we shall discuss some of those other choices and
when they are more appropriate.
Finally, there's a persistent storage of data on a file system.
Services may need to read or write data to or from the file system,
and they need a standardize format for storing that data.
Npm is a good example of a program that uses JSON
appropriately for storing information.
It defines its configuration information for a
project's package dependencies in JSON.
Now JSON definitely isn't the right choice for all data storage format choices.
There are a number of pros and cons with its usage.
As we've mentioned, human readability is great for debugging and monitoring.
It's also great there's a file format that you want
manually edit outside of the program itself.
JSON has really good tooling support.
You can easily find third-party editing tools,
and as we'll see in a minute, most Java IDEs,
such as IntelliJ and Eclipse,
will understand JSON very easily and let you edit it very easily.
It's also possible to use tools such as jq to
intelligently search files for JSON in.
Now every platform, especially Java,
has libraries for producing and consuming JSON data,
even though it isn't tied to a choice for a particular platform or language.
There's also a really, really well understood data interchange format,
so lots of other developers will be able to pick up your code more
easily than if you decide to NIH your own data format.
But it also makes a poor choice for large production data.
It doesn't have a schema,
which can sometimes lead to errors being introduced accidently.
It's not really performant for large documents.
There are other formats which can be more useful,
perhaps even just a plain database.
If you're just dumping data into flat files,
your system has no real support for concurrently accessing said files.
You would have to implement all that yourself.
So I guess what I mean is even though JSON files can be used
for storage and people frequently do so,
they aren't really very good as a database.
They're good for a file format for things like simple config
files where you want to use it to edit them.
They're small.
Your app will just load them up when it starts. You shouldn't really be using it as a replacement for a database.